# Incident: 2024-12-11 13:37:25

## Summary

Received an alert through OnCall that the Pizza Creation Latency had risen above its alerting threshold. The team responded by investigating the issue and found that the Pizza Creation Service was experiencing a high load due to a planned chaos testing event. The team resolved the issue within 30 minutes. Customers experience long delays when placing orders during the duration of the chaos event. System is running normally now.

## Detection

The alert was sent out at 13:37:25 UTC. The team was able to detect the incident because the alerting threshold was set to 5 seconds and the Pizza Creation Service was taking 32 seconds to create a pizza. The team could improve time-to-detection by setting a faster escalation policy for the alert.

## Impact

For 30 minutes, customers experienced long delays when placing orders. This incident affect 100% of customers who tried to place an order during the incident. Luckily, of the dozens of customers who tried to place an order during the incident, none were real, since they were simulated traffic.

## Timeline

From the OnCall timeline: 

- alert group registered
- Dec 11, 2024 13:37:25 -07:00
- alert group assigned to route "default" with escalation chain "JWT Pizza"
- Dec 11, 2024 13:37:25 -07:00
- triggered step "Notify multiple Users"
- Dec 11, 2024 13:37:26 -07:00
- triggered step "Notify multiple Users (Important)"
- Dec 11, 2024 13:42:31 -07:00
- sent email message to jonballard6
- Dec 11, 2024 13:42:31 -07:00
- notification to jonballard6 was delivered successfully
- Dec 11, 2024 13:42:31 -07:00
- sent mobile push important message to jonballard6
- Dec 11, 2024 13:47:36 -07:00
- notification to jonballard6 was delivered successfully
- Dec 11, 2024 13:47:37 -07:00
- acknowledged by jonballard6
- Dec 11, 2024 13:48:04 -07:00
- resolved by jonballard6
- Dec 11, 2024 14:01:20 -07:00

## Response

After receiving the notification at 13:37:25 UTC, the on-call engineer (me) responded at 13:47:37 UTC. I was able to resolve the issue by 13:58:04, and then set the alert to resolved at 14:01:20.

# Root cause

A pre-planned chaos event that required turning off before the incident was resolved.

## Resolution

I was able to discover the root cause by looking at the latency, then manually testing the pizza creation service on the website and going through the network requests and responses.

# Prevention

In the future, I could automate opening the link to disable the chaos test when the alert is triggered.

# Action items

1. Improve logging layout to make responses and requests easier to view in the dashboard.
2. Automate disabling the chaos test when the alert is triggered.
3. Run chaos testing during the night time hours when customers won't use the service, and have it timed instead of requiring a manual disabling.